



 Lions finally get Ford tough and offer glimmer of hope for NFL laughingstock - Yahoo Sports


























































   ⌂Home Mail Search News Sports Finance Weather Games Answers Screen Flickr Mobile More⋁ Politics Celebrity Movies Music TV Groups Health Style Beauty Food Parenting Makers Tech Shopping Travel Autos Real Estate Try Yahoo Sports on Firefox »                         Skip to Navigation  Skip to Main content  Skip to Right rail       👤 Sign In     ✉ Mail      ⚙ Help     Account Info  Help  Suggestions         











Follow Yahoo Sports






 
on Facebook 




 
on Twitter 




 
on Tumblr 




 
on Google+ 



 
 
on Flickr 




 
on Instagram 





Score Strip 
League:  NFL 



Cleveland vs. Cincinnati 


          Final
         
10  CLE
        

31  CIN
         





Miami vs. Buffalo 


Sun  1:00 PM
 
          MIA
        

          BUF
         





St. Louis vs. Minnesota 


Sun  1:00 PM
 
          STL
        

          MIN
         





Washington vs. New England 


Sun  1:00 PM
 
          WAS
        

          NE
         





Tennessee vs. New Orleans 


Sun  1:00 PM
 
          TEN
        

          NO
         





Jacksonville vs. NY Jets 


Sun  1:00 PM
 
          JAX
        

          NYJ
         





Oakland vs. Pittsburgh 


Sun  1:00 PM
 
          OAK
        

          PIT
         





Green Bay vs. Carolina 


Sun  1:00 PM
 
          GB
        

          CAR
         





Atlanta vs. San Francisco 


Sun  4:05 PM
 
          ATL
        

          SF
         





NY Giants vs. Tampa Bay 


Sun  4:05 PM
 
          NYG
        

          TB
         





Denver vs. Indianapolis 


Sun  4:25 PM
 
          DEN
        

          IND
         





Philadelphia vs. Dallas 


Sun  8:30 PM
 
          PHI
        

          DAL
         





Chicago vs. San Diego 


Mon  8:30 PM
 
          CHI
        

          SD
         


View All 







 

 





Sports Home 


$500K Football Contest 


Daily Fantasy 


Fantasy Football 


Fantasy 


NFL 


Fantasy Football 


Scores/Schedule 


Standings 


Stats 


Teams 


Players 


Dan Wetzel 


Eric Adelson 


Charles Robinson 


Shutdown Corner 


Video 

More › 




Odds 


Injuries 


Tickets 







NBA 


MLB 


NCAAF 


NCAAB 


NHL 


MMA 


Soccer 


Golf 


NASCAR 


All Sports 


Rivals 


Shop 





   




    Recommended Games
  







 
 






 
 






 
 






More games » 






   





  Buzzing on Yahoo Sports:    Browns' Manziel starts hot but fizzles late in loss to Bengals   
    




   



Lions finally get Ford tough and offer glimmer of hope for NFL laughingstock




 


By  Dan Wetzel  
17 hours ago


Yahoo Sports  
 








    






















Content preferences 




Done











 
Ninety years old and apparently out of patience in the face of pitiful that has defined the NFL franchise she now owns, Martha Firestone Ford dropped the hammer Thursday on the Detroit Lions . 
General manager Martin Mayhew is gone. Team president Tom Lewand is gone. More is expected to come. Scouts. Executives. Whomever. Coach Jim Caldwell is safe for now, although he'll likely be fired at season's end. The Lions are 1-7 and on their bye week.
Martha assumed power when her husband William Clay Ford died last year. She is not interested in being a figurehead. This is an activist move. Moreover, daughter Shelia Ford Hamp is, according to the Detroit Free Press, now assuming a "prominent role" with the team. 
   View gallery. Martha Firestone Ford (AP) 
"We are very disappointed with the results of the season thus far and believe a change in leadership was needed," Martha Firestone Ford said Thursday.
So a woman's touch is proving to be an iron fist.
It's not unusual for one-win teams to get a bloodletting. It's unusual, however, for a franchise to manage just a single playoff victory since 1957 – going on six decades of near complete futility.
That's Detroit though and that's why this was such a significant day. Fans took to talk radio and social media to debate where this ranked among great days in the team history. Top 10, top five, top two (behind either that lone playoff victory in 1991 or the firing of Matt Millen in 2008)?
[Yahoo Daily Fantasy Football: First place wins $100K in our $500K contest for Week 9 ]
This signifies the possibility of a new day in Detroit. There is no guarantee of success. Everyone knows that. The replacements of Mayhew, Lewand and others is the key going forward.
"As of today we are beginning a national search for the best leadership going forward," Ford said. "Our fans deserve a winning football team and we will do everything possible to make it a reality."
At least there is a forward. William Clay Ford Sr., who bought the team in 1963, was known as an agreeable owner and beloved boss. His tendency was to hire good people, likable people and give them ample, or way too ample, time and freedom to do their job. He was painfully loyal and never meddlesome in a sport that thrives on cutthroat competitiveness. Since 1967, the Lions have had four general managers. Four. This might make sense if they were ringing up championships, if you were say Green Bay or someplace (which, for instance, has had 10 different "general managers" during that time frame). The opposite was true of course.
   View gallery. Martin Mayhew and Tom Lewand couldn't survive a 1-7 start this season. (AP)   
It is even more absurd that Russ Thomas was the GM from 1967-1988. He delivered just six winning seasons in 20 and, of course, zero postseason victories. That's a disaster in most places but when he was replaced, he was replaced by his protégé, Chuck Schmidt, who drafted Barry Sanders  but couldn't maximize it. He was done in 2000.
The Lions then went outside the box and bought whatever broadcaster Matt Millen was selling, making perhaps the worst front-office hires in NFL history. That was only half of it though. They allowed Millen to live in Pennsylvania and "commute" to work and then, even as the losing seasons piled up – Millen's teams never had a winning record – Millen kept getting another season to get things right. There was no stomach for a firing.
Once fan unrest was so great – they staged a "Millen Man March" – and the franchise barreled to a historic 0-16 season, Millen was finally canned.
And then they inexplicably replaced him with his assistant, Mayhew. He is universally hailed as a nice guy but his candidacy was based on the idea that under Millen he'd seen what not to do and thus would do the opposite.

That may sound like the plot of a Chris Farley movie, but it was a gut punch reality for Lions fans.
Consider a year ago, when endless top-five draft picks produced an 11-5 team. Mayhew and Lewand misread the pending free agency of Ndamukong Suh  and Nick Fairley . Rather than plan ahead and use the No. 10 pick in the 2014 draft to land a replacement defensive lineman (St. Louis got star Aaron Donald  at No. 13) they gambled on a project tight end in Eric Ebron , who hasn't panned out.
Now the Lions are their typical disaster, not getting better and not even trading away one of their marketable assets for future picks before the deadline – Calvin Johnson , Golden Tate , etc.
So what Martha Firestone Ford did on Thursday was at least … something. It was at least a sign of concern from … someone. It was at least a lashing out at unacceptability from … anyone.
There is no reason that one franchise should be so fruitless, pointless, disheartening for this long. Most fans have complained it was about William Clay Ford's lack of urgency and overabundance of faith. Now he's gone, and with his wife and daughter in place, the women demand better. The obvious game plan here is simple: pay big and lure in a top-line football mind who will be given total control.
The hard part is finding the right person, but if they can, then Detroit at least has a chance.
Going on six decades of so many lost seasons, that's all the fans want at this point. A 90-year-old woman at least gave them that, at least gave them a long overdue house cleaning and the potential fresh start they rightfully doubted would ever come.
More on coaches on hot seat   
 
Sports & RecreationAmerican FootballMartha Firestone FordDetroit LionsMatt MillenMartin Mayhew




   


 


Win cash prizes, pick a fantasy roster for just one day, join in minutes!

Learn how to play  









Contest
Entries
Entry Fee
Prizes
Starts (EDT)




NFL $500K Baller [$100K to 1st]
18527/56819
$10
$500000

Sunday 1:00 PM 
Enter 



NBA $20K Tournament [$2K to 1st]
936/4545
$5
$20000

Today 7:00 PM 
Enter 



NBA $10K Tournament [$1K to 1st]
116/454
$25
$10000

Today 7:00 PM 
Enter 





View today's contests 



   

Click to view comments 


View Comments (951 ) 


 



Panthers Set Expansion Team Win Streak Record | This Day in NFL History

 
 



 
 



 
 


Are Caldwell and Stafford's Lions future in doubt?

 
 



 
 



 





Share this

 
  



    











Top HeadlinesManziel solid but Bengals shut down Browns Rose bounces back to lift Bulls over Thunder Why can't Cincinnati earn No. 1 seed in AFC? QB Stidham plays well as Baylor stays unbeaten Wade hits incredible buzzer-beater in Heat win Missouri scores first TD in more than a month Forde: No CFP help for Alabama if it loses to LSU Patriots win coin-tosses at near-impossible rate Rays, Mariners make first trade of offseason Win $100K in our $500K Daily contest for Week 9 
Must Watch    
   What to read next                  Blackhawks' Kane won't face rape charges           Mavs extend Carlisle for 5 years, $35M  Sponsored  The Associated Press                   GM: Nats talked to Black, Baker at once                 CC Sabathia says he realized in 2012 he was alcoholic                 Kenseth's suspension appeal rejected        
   Latest NFL Videos             03:25    Play     Evans: 'We've been putting in the work in practice'  03:25          Week 9: Browns vs. Bengals highlights  Sponsored  NFL Highlights              01:20    Play     Who should start for the Browns next week?  01:20           02:58    Play     Impressions from the Bengals win over the Browns  02:58           01:36    Play     Todd Gurley 2015 midseason highlights  01:36          Bengals postgame press conference  Sponsored  NFL Highlights              02:13    Play     Low Hanging Fruit: Panthers Defense  02:13           00:39    Play     Week 8: FedEx Air & Ground Winners  00:39           01:31    Play     Amari Cooper 2015 midseason highlights  01:31       
   Latest NFL Slideshows             Photos    View     2015 NFL cheerleaders - Week 8           NFL International Series - Detroit Lions vs. Kansas City Chiefs  Sponsored  Associated Press              Photos    View     Faces of defeat - Mets players and fans react to World Series loss            Photos    View     Best 2015 NFL action - Week 8            Photos    View     NFL cheerleaders show off their best Halloween costumes           Crazy NFL fans - Week 8  Sponsored  Getty Images          




Follow Yahoo Sports






 
on Facebook 




 
on Twitter 




 
on Tumblr 




 
on Google+ 



 
 
on Flickr 




 
on Instagram 













Yahoo Sports - NBC Sports Network, Stats LLC, Opta. All Rights Reserved 


Help  / Suggestions 


Privacy 


About Our Ads 


Terms 











   


   



















