



 Reports: Former Braves pitcher Tommy Hanson dead at 29 | Big League Stew - Yahoo Sports

























































   ⌂Home Mail Search News Sports Finance Weather Games Answers Screen Flickr Mobile More⋁ Politics Celebrity Movies Music TV Groups Health Style Beauty Food Parenting Makers Tech Shopping Travel Autos Real Estate Try Yahoo Sports on Firefox »                         Skip to Navigation  Skip to Main content  Skip to Right rail       👤 Sign In     ✉ Mail      ⚙ Help     Account Info  Help  Suggestions         











Follow Yahoo Sports






 
on Facebook 




 
on Twitter 




 
on Tumblr 




 
on Google+ 



 
 
on Flickr 




 
on Instagram 










 






Sports Home 


Daily Fantasy 


Fantasy Football 


Fantasy 


NFL 


NBA 


MLB 


Fantasy Baseball 


Scores / Schedule 


Standings 


Stats 


Teams 


Players 


Tim Brown 


Jeff Passan 


Big League Stew 


Video 


Odds 


Tickets 




NCAAF 


NCAAB 


NHL 


MMA 


Soccer 


Golf 


NASCAR 


All Sports 


Rivals 


Shop 





   




    Recommended Games
  







 
 






 
 






 
 






More games » 






   





  Buzzing on Yahoo Sports:    Baseball's hypocritical marijuana rules leave prospect high and dry   
    

Big League Stew



   



Reports: Former Braves pitcher Tommy Hanson dead at 29




 


By  Chris Cwik  
1 hour ago


Big League Stew  
 








    






















Content preferences 




Done









 


. 
View photo


Tommy Hanson, who spent four of his five MLB seasons with the Braves, died Monday at the age of 29.










Former Atlanta Braves  pitcher Tommy Hanson has died due to catastrophic organ failure , according to multiple reports.
The news comes as a huge shock to the baseball world. Though Hanson had not pitched in the majors since 2013, he was still an active player. Hanson spent the 2015 season in the San Francisco Giants  minor-league system. He was pitching off a mound just a few weeks ago.
Details surrounding Hanson's death are somewhat unclear at this time. It was first reported early Monday  that Hanson was in a coma at a local Atlanta hospital. The Angels sent out a tweet shortly after the report broke sending their thoughts  to Hanson, but did not provide any details about the situation. 
Klein later that Hanson had suffered "catastrophic organ failure," and that the situation was dire. 
Per source: Tommy Hanson suffered catastrophic organ failure. "We need prayers, we need him to wake up"— Zach Klein (@ZachKleinWSB) November 10, 2015  
A few hours later, Klein reported that Hanson had died . The Braves later confirmed that report . Hanson was 29 years old.
Hanson spent four of his five major-league seasons as a member of the Braves. He came up through the organization and showed promise immediately, ranking fourth overall  on Baseball America's top prospect list prior to the 2009 season. 
Hanson made his debut that season and was sensational. As a 22-year-old, Hanson posted a 2.89 ERA over 21 starts. He finished third in the Rookie of the Year voting. 
Hanson experienced two more strong seasons with Atlanta before shoulder woes struck. Hanson spent time on the disabled list twice in 2011 due to a shoulder impingement in his throwing arm. He was able to return the following season, but wasn't the same pitcher.
Following the 2012 season, he was traded to the Los Angeles Angels . Hanson struggled with the club, posting a 5.42 ERA over 73 innings.
His only season with Los Angeles was difficult for Hanson off the field as well. Early in the year, Hanson's younger stepbrother died. Hanson spent three weeks away from the club mourning his death. He told Bill Shaikin of the Los Angeles Times he had a tough time dealing with the loss .



“I was having mental issues with the death of my younger brother,” said Hanson, 26, two years older than his deceased brother. “I was just trying to get through it. I didn’t know how to handle it.
“That was the first time anything like that had ever happened to me. I didn’t know how to cope with it.”



After the 2013 season, Hanson signed on with the Chicago White Sox . He posted a 6.16 ERA over 49 2/3 innings with the team's Triple-A club. He signed on with the Giants prior to the 2015 season in order to continue his comeback. 
More MLB coverage from Yahoo Sports:
  
 
- - - - - - -
Chris Cwik  is a writer for Big League Stew  on Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at christophercwik@yahoo.com  or follow him on Twitter! Follow @Chris_Cwik 
Sports & RecreationBaseballTommy HansonAtlanta Braves




   


 


Win cash prizes, pick a fantasy roster for just one day, join in minutes!

Learn how to play  









Contest
Entries
Entry Fee
Prizes
Starts (EDT)




NFL $500K Baller [$100K to 1st]
1613/56819
$10
$500000

Sunday 1:00 PM 
Enter 



NBA $15K Tournament [$2K to 1st]
608/3410
$5
$15000

Today 7:00 PM 
Enter 



NHL $4K Tournament [$400 to 1st]
123/909
$5
$4000

Today 7:00 PM 
Enter 





View today's contests 



   

Click to view comments 


View Comments (126 ) 





Share this

 
  



    











Top HeadlinesReports: Former MLB pitcher Hanson dead at 29 Forde: Missouri situation shows power of sports Passan: Baseball's marijuana rules hypocritical Source: Payton increasingly likely to leave Saints Pujols has toe surgery, may miss start of season Report: Jose Reyes arrested for domestic abuse NFL suspends Denver's Talib for eye poke Missouri players explain why they joined protest Rams sign Welker after months out of football Get 100% deposit bonus on Yahoo Daily Fantasy 
Must Watch    
   What to read next                  CB Talib suspended 1 game for eye poke           Wolves blow huge lead but end Hawks' run  Sponsored  The Associated Press                Play     Warriors pull away to remain unbeaten                 Illini fire AD after athlete allegations                 Patriots put RB Lewis on injured reserve        

   Latest MLB Videos             03:11    Play     Mets or Royals - who wins the World Series?  03:11          Royal comeback saves Kansas City's season  Sponsored  Yahoo Sports Videos              02:14    Play     Mets' deGrom could be deciding factor in NLCS  02:14           01:17    Play     Expect no lack of drama in ALCS  01:17           01:04    Play     Blue Jays bounce back, advance to ALCS  01:04          Cubs beat Cardinals to advance to NLCS  Sponsored  Yahoo Sports Videos          
   Latest MLB Slideshows             Photos    View     Top 25 free agents of 2015-16 MLB offseason           World Series Game 4 - Kansas City Royals vs. New York Mets  Sponsored  Getty Images              Photos    View     Kansas City Royals World Series victory parade            Photos    View     World Series Game 5 - Kansas City Royals vs. New York Mets            Photos    View     Kansas City Royals celebrate first World Series championship in 30 years           Celebrity sightings - MLB playoffs  Sponsored  Getty Images          



Follow Yahoo Sports






 
on Facebook 




 
on Twitter 




 
on Tumblr 




 
on Google+ 



 
 
on Flickr 




 
on Instagram 













Yahoo Sports - NBC Sports Network, Stats LLC, Opta. All Rights Reserved 


Help  / Suggestions 


Privacy 


About Our Ads 


Terms 






























