



 Christie, Huckabee relegated to undercard at next GOP debate - Yahoo News





















































   ⌂Home Mail Search News Sports Finance Weather Games Answers Screen Flickr Mobile More⋁ Politics Celebrity Movies Music TV Groups Health Style Beauty Food Parenting Makers Tech Shopping Travel Autos Real Estate Try Yahoo News on Firefox »                         Skip to Navigation  Skip to Main content  Skip to Right rail       👤 Sign In     ✉ Mail      ⚙ Help     Account Info  Help  Suggestions         











Follow Yahoo News






 
on Facebook 




 
on Twitter 




 
on Tumblr 




 
on Google+ 



 
 
on Flickr 










 





News Home 


U.S. 


World 


Politics 




Tech 


Science 


Health 


Odd News 


Local 


Dear Abby 


Comics 


ABC News 


Katie Couric 


Trending 


Photos 




   




    Recommended Games
  







 
 






 
 






 
 






More games » 



   





    




   



Christie, Huckabee relegated to undercard at next GOP debate




 


By  JILL COLVIN and STEVE PEOPLES 
8 hours ago


 








    






















Content preferences 




Done









 


. 
View gallery






  


. 





  


. 





  


. 















NEWARK, N.J. (AP) — Chris Christie and Mike Huckabee have been bumped from the main stage at next week's GOP presidential debate, while George Pataki and Lindsey Graham have been cut from the lineup altogether.Debate sponsor Fox Business Network announced the moves Thursday evening, dealing a major blow to all four candidates, particularly Christie, the New Jersey governor, and Huckabee, a former Arkansas governor, as they struggled to stand out in the crowded Republican field amid signs of momentum in states where the first primary contests will be held.The decision underscores concerns about the pivotal role that national opinion surveys have been playing in shaping the contest for the GOP nomination. Statistically, pollsters say, there is no significant difference between candidates lumped together near the bottom of the pack in national polls, which often have a margin of error of 3 percentage points or more."I tell people, 'Ignore the national polls and just follow those early states,'" said Republican pollster Frank Luntz, who argues that early opinion surveys are notoriously unreliable. "Except that now national polls drive the debates, and debates drive the polling."According to debate criteria issued by Fox Business, candidates must score 2.5 percent or higher in an average of the four most recent major polls conducted through Nov. 4 to be featured in the prime-time debate. They must hit the 1 percent mark to qualify for an undercard debate airing before the main event.As a result of the new standards, the prime-time affair will feature eight candidates — the smallest lineup so far. Ten candidates were featured in the party's opening primetime debate in August.



 
View gallery 
 

 
 
FILE - In this Oct. 31, 2015, file photo, Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee, speaks at …
The prime-time lineup: businessman Donald Trump, retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, former technology executive Carly Fiorina, Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul and Ohio Gov. John Kasich. The undercard event features just four candidates: Christie, Huckabee, former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum and Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal.Pataki, the former New York governor, and Graham, a South Carolina senator, already faced a tough road to the GOP nomination. Their omission from the undercard debates will make it even harder for them to convince voters — and donors — that they have a viable path to the nomination."It is ironic that the only veteran in the race is going to be denied a voice the day before Veterans Day," Graham campaign manager Christian Ferry said in a statement. "In the end, the biggest loser tonight is the American people and the Republican presidential primary process that has been hijacked by news outlets."Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry provides a cautionary tale of the potential impact. Fundraising dollars dried up after Perry was relegated to the undercard debate earlier in the year.During an appearance on Fox News earlier in the day, Christie seemed resigned to the fact that he might be forced into a match-up that has been derisively referred to as the "kiddie table." After the announcement, Christie tweeted: "It doesn't matter the stage, give me a podium and I'll be there to talk about real issues."



 
View gallery 
 

 
 
In this photo taken Oct. 28, 2015, Republican presidential candidates, from left, John Kasich, Mike  …
Steve Duprey, chairman of the Republican National Committee's debate subcommittee, has been frustrated that debate criteria used by TV networks have ignored candidates' standing in early-voting states where they spend most of their time."When you do debates based on national polls, it undermines the ability of a lesser-known, lesser-funded candidate to get traction," said Duprey, a Republican national committeeman from New Hampshire. He suggested that Democrat Bill Clinton or Republican John McCain could have struggled to emerge under the current system.At this time in 2007, polls showed that former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani was far ahead of his closest challenger with the eventual nominee, McCain, in third. And Hillary Rodham Clinton was leading then-Sen. Barack Obama by about 20 percentage points.The Republican National Committee, which coordinated many of the debate logistics, has been challenged by campaigns looking for more control.Some lower-tier campaigns have been pushing aggressively for two debates featuring major candidates with each lineup determined at random. While networks have the flexibility to change their formats, such a scenario remains unlikely. More likely, according to campaigns involved in debate discussions, is that the undercard debate will be eliminated altogether as early as the GOP's December debate.



 
View gallery 
 

 
 
FILE - In this Oct. 28, 2015 file photo, Republican presidential candidates, from left, Bobby Jindal …
Pataki called debate organizers' reliance on national polls "a disservice to voters everywhere" and "a clear boost to the worship of celebrity over accomplishment and ideas.""The voters — not networks driven by ratings or national polls that are statistically irrelevant — should decide our next president," he said after Fox Business Network announced the lineup.After next week's face-offs, just two debates remain before the opening primary contest in Iowa."I'm happy to debate anyone, anywhere, anytime," Huckabee said. "We are months away from actual votes being cast and neither the pundits nor the press will decide this election. The people will."___Peoples reported from Manchester, New Hampshire.___Follow Jill Colvin and Steve Peoples on Twitter at: http://twitter.com/sppeoples and http://twitter.com/colvinjElectionsPolitics & GovernmentMike HuckabeeLindsey GrahamFox Business NetworkGeorge PatakiGOPChris Christie





Click to view comments 


View Comments (4249 ) 







    



 
  










Must Watch    
What to read nextTrending   Teen Discovers He Was Kidnapped as a Child When Applying For College 13 Years Later  Inside Edition       Trending   Teen Mom Shares Heart-Warming Photo of Her Teacher Holding Her Son: 'Teachers Are Your Second Parents'  Inside Edition Photos   NATO war games  Yahoo News       Trending   Miranda Lambert Rocked a 'Revenge Dress,' but 'Was Hurting' After Blake Shelton Confirmed Gwen Stefani Relationship  ETonline Trending   Lamar Odom Kicks Khloe Kardashian Out Of His Hospital Room?  Rachel Pilcher Trending   Lions finally get Ford tough and offer glimmer of hope for NFL laughingstock  Yahoo Sports Photos   Photos of the day - November 5, 2015  Yahoo News       Trending   'A bunch of lies': Ben Carson blasts CNN during CNN interview  Business Insider Trending   Former Raiders first-round pick convicted on three counts of murder  Sporting News Trending   Browns' Johnny Manziel starts hot, fizzles late, plagued by drops  Shutdown Corner Photos   'Rockabye': A post-Hurricane Sandy homage  Yahoo News       Trending   Former Raiders first-round pick convicted of three murders  Shutdown Corner  Trending   Uber Passenger Claims He Can't Remember Hitting Driver, Makes Tearful Apology: 'I'm Ashamed'  Inside Edition Trending   Detective: 'Hero' cop sought hit-man to cover up thefts  Associated Press Photos   Attacker killed at the University of California, Merced  Yahoo News       Trending   Lucky or good? Patriots winning coin tosses at nearly impossible rate  Shutdown Corner Trending   Microsoft Band 2: The Best Fitness Watch for People Who Really Like to Sweat  David Pogue Trending   Breakups and Breakdowns: The Realities of Getting Dumped in New York City  Nora Crotty Photos   Shooter in standoff with police at San Diego apartment complex  Yahoo News       Trending   Gwen Stefani Sheds Light on the Final Years Leading Up to Gavin Rossdale Divorce  ETonline Trending   You Can Lower Your Odds of Becoming Obese by Doing This One Easy Thing  Amy Capetta 



Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.





Yahoo - ABC News Network 


Help  / Suggestions 


Privacy 


About Our Ads 


Terms 



























