



 Appeals court rules against Obama immigration plan - Yahoo News





















































   ⌂Home Mail Search News Sports Finance Weather Games Answers Screen Flickr Mobile More⋁ Politics Celebrity Movies Music TV Groups Health Style Beauty Food Parenting Makers Tech Shopping Travel Autos Real Estate Try Yahoo News on Firefox »                         Skip to Navigation  Skip to Main content  Skip to Right rail       👤 Sign In     ✉ Mail      ⚙ Help     Account Info  Help  Suggestions         











Follow Yahoo News






 
on Facebook 




 
on Twitter 




 
on Tumblr 




 
on Google+ 



 
 
on Flickr 










 





News Home 


U.S. 


World 


Politics 


Tech 


Science 


Health 


Odd News 


Local 


Dear Abby 


Comics 


ABC News 


Katie Couric 


Trending 


Photos 




   




    Recommended Games
  







 
 






 
 






 
 






More games » 



   





    




   



Appeals court rules against Obama immigration plan




 


By  KEVIN McGILL 
1 hour ago


 








    






















Content preferences 




Done









 


. 
View photo


FILE - In this Nov. 21, 2014, file photo, U.S. President Barack Obama speaks about immigration at Del Sol High School in Las Vegas. Obama's plan to protect from deportation an estimated 5 million people living in the United States illegally suffered another setback Monday, Nov. 9, 2015, in a ruling from a New Orleans-based federal appeals court. In a 2-1 ruling, the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a Texas-based federal judge's injunction blocking the administration's immigration initiative. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster, File)












NEW ORLEANS (AP) — President Barack Obama's plan to protect from deportation an estimated 5 million people living in the United States illegally suffered another setback Monday in a ruling from a New Orleans-based federal appeals court.In a 2-1 decision, the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a Texas-based federal judge's injunction blocking the administration's immigration initiative.Republicans had criticized the plan as an illegal executive overreach when Obama announced it last November. Twenty-six states challenged the plan in court.The administration argued that the executive branch was within its rights in deciding to defer deportation of selected groups of immigrants, including children who were brought to the U.S. illegally.Texas Gov. Greg Abbott praised the ruling."President Obama should abandon his lawless executive amnesty program and start enforcing the law today," Abbott said in a news release.The ruling further dims prospects of implementation of the executive action before Obama leaves office in 2017. Appeals over the injunction could take months and, depending on how the case unfolds, it could go back to the Texas federal court for more proceedings.The administration could ask for a re-hearing by the full 5th Circuit but the National Immigration Law Center, and advocacy group, urged an immediate Supreme Court appeal.Justice Department spokesman Patrick Rodenbush said in a statement they were reviewing the opinion to determine how best to proceed."The department is committed to taking steps that will resolve the immigration litigation as quickly as possible in order to allow DHS (Department of Homeland Security) to bring greater accountability to our immigration system by prioritizing the removal of the worst offenders, not people who have long ties to the United States and who are raising American children," he said.Part of the initiative included expansion of a program called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, protecting young immigrants from deportation if they were brought to the U.S. illegally as children. The other major part, Deferred Action for Parents of Americans, would extend deportation protections to parents of U.S. citizens and permanent residents who have been in the country for years.The 70-page majority opinion by Judge Jerry Smith, joined by Jennifer Walker Elrod, rejected administration arguments that the district judge abused his discretion with a nationwide order and that the states lacked standing to challenge Obama's executive orders.They acknowledged an argument that an adverse ruling would discourage potential beneficiaries of the plan from cooperating with law enforcement authorities or paying taxes. "But those are burdens that Congress knowingly created, and it is not our place to second-guess those decisions," Smith wrote.In a 53-page dissent, Judge Carolyn Dineen King said the administration was within the law, casting the decision to defer action on some deportations as "quintessential exercises of prosecutorial discretion," and noting that the Department of Homeland Security has limited resources."Although there are approximately 11.3 million removable aliens in this country today, for the last several years Congress has provided the Department of Homeland Security with only enough resources to remove approximately 400,000 of those aliens per year," King wrote.Politics & GovernmentImmigration IssuesBarack Obamafederal appeals court





Click to view comments 


View Comments (365 ) 







    



 
  










Must Watch    
What to read nextTrending   Reports: Former Braves pitcher Tommy Hanson dead at 29  Big League Stew       Trending   This movie did so terribly that Universal is pulling it from theaters after 2 weeks  Business Insider Photos   Photos of the day – November 9, 2015  Yahoo News       Trending   Bride Dies in Motorcycle Crash on Way to Reception Minutes After Marrying New Husband  Inside Edition Trending   How Low Should You Go? Big Study Sheds Light on Best Blood Pressure  Yahoo Premium Partners Trending   Costco’s huge pre-Black Friday sale ad posted: Killer prices on HDTVs, computers and more  BGR News Photos   Homelessness in Hawaii  Yahoo News       Trending   'The Voice': What You Didn't See on TV From Blake and Gwen's First Live Show as a Couple  ETonline Trending   Missouri protest exposes NCAA's greatest fear  Yahoo Sports Trending   Caitlyn Jenner Stuns in Royal Blue Moschino Gown at the 2015 Women of the Year Awards  Us Weekly Photos   Americans killed in deadly police training center shooting in Jordan  Yahoo News       Trending   Egypt detects 'impressive' anomaly in Giza pyramids  Associated Press  Trending   Trump suggests Starbucks boycott  Associated Press Trending   50 Cent and Soulja Boy React Fiercely to Vivica A. Fox's Comments About Their Sexuality  Suzy Byrne Photos   Fatal shooting in midtown Manhattan near Penn Station  Yahoo News       Trending   50 Cent Responds to His Ex Vivica A. Fox's Comments About His Sexuality  ETonline Trending   Lawyer: Body cam showed no threats as police killed boy  Associated Press Trending   Body Activist and Model Ashley Graham on Being a 'Disrupter' in the Fashion Industry  Good Morning America Photos   Photos of the day - November 8, 2015  Yahoo News       Trending   3 officers on leave after videotaped arrest at Alabama  Associated Press Trending   In Egypt, angry talk of Western conspiracy over plane crash  Associated Press 



Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.





Yahoo - ABC News Network 


Help  / Suggestions 


Privacy 


About Our Ads 


Terms 


























