



 Trump suggests Starbucks boycott - Yahoo News





















































   ⌂Home Mail Search News Sports Finance Weather Games Answers Screen Flickr Mobile More⋁ Politics Celebrity Movies Music TV Groups Health Style Beauty Food Parenting Makers Tech Shopping Travel Autos Real Estate Try Yahoo News on Firefox »                         Skip to Navigation  Skip to Main content  Skip to Right rail       👤 Sign In     ✉ Mail      ⚙ Help     Account Info  Help  Suggestions         











Follow Yahoo News






 
on Facebook 




 
on Twitter 




 
on Tumblr 




 
on Google+ 



 
 
on Flickr 










 





News Home 


U.S. 


World 


Politics 




Tech 


Science 


Health 


Odd News 


Local 


Dear Abby 


Comics 


ABC News 


Katie Couric 


Trending 


Photos 




   




    Recommended Games
  







 
 






 
 






 
 






More games » 



   





    




   



Trump suggests Starbucks boycott




 


By  JOHN O'CONNOR and JILL COLVIN 
4 hours ago


 








    






















Content preferences 




Done









 


. 
View gallery






  


. 





  


. 















SPRINGFIELD, Ill. (AP) — Republican presidential contender Donald Trump is suggesting boycotting Starbucks over the minimalist design of its annual holiday cups."Did you read about Starbucks? No more Merry Christmas on Starbucks," Trump told a capacity crowd of thousands gathered to hear him speak at a pre-debate rally in Springfield, Illinois on Monday evening."Maybe we should boycott Starbucks. I don't know," he said. "Seriously, I don't care."Some religious conservatives have expressed anger over the coffee company's annual holiday-time cups — a minimalist all-red design with no images aside from the company's green and white logo.Previous years' cups have featured snowflakes, winter scenes and sometimes Christmas ornaments. But a small number of critics see the design choice as part of a larger movement away from exclusively Christian-themed holiday decorations. The company did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Trump, who is working to win the support of evangelical and other conservative Christians in a crowded field, has often expressed frustrations over companies using the term "Happy Holidays" in place of "Merry Christmas."



 
View gallery 
 

 
 
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump reacts to the crowd of supporters during a campaign r …
He said on Monday that: "If I become president, we're all going to be saying, 'Merry Christmas' again. That I can tell you."He added that Starbucks operates a store in one of his buildings and that "that's the end of that lease, but who cares?"The rally comes on the eve of the next Republican presidential debate, which will be taking place Tuesday evening in Milwaukee.Brian Oaks, general manager of the Prairie Capital Convention Center, said the billionaire businessman and reality television star had attracted a record-setting crowd for the convention center of 10,200 in downtown Springfield, a solidly Republican city in a Democratic-leaning state.Trump did not mention the debate during his rally speech, but previewed some of the attack lines he may choose to use against rivals, including retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, who is now running neck-and-neck with him in several polls.



 
View gallery 
 

 
 
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump smiles and gives a thumbs up as supporters applaud du …
Trump expressed near-exasperation at Carson's continued popularity in the face of growing questions about discrepancies in his autobiography, "Gifted Hands," which included claims that he tried to hit his mother with a hammer and unsuccessfully tried to stab someone when he was an angry youth."With what's going on with this election? I've never seen anything like it," said Trump. He went on to mimic the back-and-forth between Carson and reporters trying to verify the story of his rise from poverty to acclaimed surgeon, including a claim by Carson that the person he'd tried to stab had been saved by his belt buckle."You stab somebody and the newspapers say, 'You didn't do it.' And you said, 'Yes I did, I did it!'" said Trump."This is the only election in history where you're better off if you stabbed somebody," he said. "What are we coming to?"___Colvin reported from Jersey City, New Jersey.Society & CulturePolitics & GovernmentDonald TrumpStarbucksMerry Christmas





Click to view comments 


View Comments (1810 ) 







    



 
  










Must Watch    
What to read nextTrending   Reports: Former Braves pitcher Tommy Hanson dead at 29  Big League Stew       Trending   This movie did so terribly that Universal is pulling it from theaters after 2 weeks  Business Insider Photos   Photos of the day – November 9, 2015  Yahoo News       Trending   Bride Dies in Motorcycle Crash on Way to Reception Minutes After Marrying New Husband  Inside Edition Trending   How Low Should You Go? Big Study Sheds Light on Best Blood Pressure  Yahoo Premium Partners Trending   Costco’s huge pre-Black Friday sale ad posted: Killer prices on HDTVs, computers and more  BGR News Photos   Homelessness in Hawaii  Yahoo News       Trending   'The Voice': What You Didn't See on TV From Blake and Gwen's First Live Show as a Couple  ETonline Trending   Missouri protest exposes NCAA's greatest fear  Yahoo Sports Trending   Caitlyn Jenner Stuns in Royal Blue Moschino Gown at the 2015 Women of the Year Awards  Us Weekly Photos   Americans killed in deadly police training center shooting in Jordan  Yahoo News       Trending   Egypt detects 'impressive' anomaly in Giza pyramids  Associated Press  Trending   50 Cent and Soulja Boy React Fiercely to Vivica A. Fox's Comments About Their Sexuality  Suzy Byrne Trending   50 Cent Responds to His Ex Vivica A. Fox's Comments About His Sexuality  ETonline Photos   Fatal shooting in midtown Manhattan near Penn Station  Yahoo News       Trending   Lawyer: Body cam showed no threats as police killed boy  Associated Press Trending   Body Activist and Model Ashley Graham on Being a 'Disrupter' in the Fashion Industry  Good Morning America Trending   3 officers on leave after videotaped arrest at Alabama  Associated Press Photos   Photos of the day - November 8, 2015  Yahoo News       Trending   In Egypt, angry talk of Western conspiracy over plane crash  Associated Press Trending   The Wild World of L.A.’s 9-Figure Gargantumansions  Michelle Huffman 



Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.





Yahoo - ABC News Network 


Help  / Suggestions 


Privacy 


About Our Ads 


Terms 


























